[Music]
living in a modern age we're constantly
surrounded by all sorts of tech we're so
used to it that we don't even notice how
ingeniously designed it really is and
there are a lot of small mysteries
why does a keyboard have legs how does
my phone vibrate why doesn't this USB
plug ever fit in on the first try today
you'll have all the answers
number one ferrite beats know obscure
tection Anakin's here don't be scared
there might be just one ferrite bead
around you right now if you're in front
of a laptop just look at the end of its
power cable near the plug there it is
that big cylindrical lump of black
plastic ever wonder what it's good for
well any cable like one that provides
power to your laptop is in fact sort of
an antenna in nature it has all the
similar parts so it can show all the
similar properties and even receive
random signals from time to time this
produces a lot of electromagnetic noise
which isn't any good for your computer
the ferrite bead acts as a signal
suppressor also known as a resistor
which cancels all this noise essentially
it kind of reminds your power cable that
it's not part of a radio number two
infrared code sounds like the title of
some Cold War themed movie but it's
about the language your TV speaks with
its remote in fact remotes use any
wavelength of light to pass a message to
a TV it's just that infrared is much
more convenient in production but it's
not the infrared light itself that's
important for sending a signal
the most significant thing here is that
every signal is not a flat flash of
infrared light but a burst of short
flickers serving to encode a specific
message kind of like Morse code this is
how your TV knows which button you're
pressing got a remote the message
consists of ones and
Zero's in the language of your TV zeroes
are short pauses between pulses of
infrared light and ones are longer
pauses although all the bursts are so
quick that you won't ever notice any
latency in signal passing number three
keyboard legs well it may seem obvious
that those little things are here to
make your keyboard more ergonomic but in
reality that's far from the truth
having the keyboard in a flat position
is actually better for your wrists these
legs are only here to help you see the
letters you're typing more clearly
another strange thing about a keyboard
is those little bumps on the F and J
keys they're used in ten finger typing
as a guide point for you to properly
position your hands without looking at
the keyboard itself so you don't need to
memorize all of the keyboard you only
need to remember the relative locations
of other keys in reference to the F and
J keys try to learn it it makes typing a
lot faster number four USB baffling
plots these awful things seem
specifically made to mess with people
but just as I was about to swear in
frustration I was stunned by a simple
realization USBs are made this way so
you can't plug them into the computer
the wrong way even if there wasn't a
plastic part inside to prevent it a USB
inserted upside down wouldn't even work
imagine this for a moment
wouldn't it be even more frustrating to
be forced to unplug and plug in again
the USB every time you did it wrong
so these annoying plastic things inside
USB connectors actually help you and
here's a little pro tip for you every
USB plug has the USB Trident logo only
on the upside just to make sure you see
it facing you and plug it in yes it's
that simple
no jokes here number five imbalance
motors are helpful if something is
imbalanced chunky and shaky it doesn't
mean that it has no use you use
imbalance motors every day even though
you may
had no idea these motors are really tiny
a bit bigger than a pencil tip and there
are several of them located in different
parts of your smartphone motor spin a
weight but this weight is shaped like a
half circle so their movement produces
an uneven force because of the fast
rotation this force doesn't push
everything around in just one direction
but seemingly in all directions at once
like you can't make up its mind about
which way to go to us all this
turbulence feels like a simple vibration
yep every time you get a notification
about your pizza delivery or a message
from a dear one you've been waiting on
for so long
tiny imbalanced motors make sure you
don't miss it
number six Olympic medals made from
smartphones the 2020 Olympic and
Paralympic Games in Tokyo Japan will
have all the medals made only from
recycled tack the collection of tech
wastes already ended on March 31st 2019
and don't worry they'll still be made of
gold silver and bronze but not from
mines and or from smartphones laptops
and cameras over five million
smartphones were collected to get sixty
six point eight pounds of gold
nine thousand thirty-eight pounds of
silver and five thousand nine hundred
fifty two pounds of bronze total this is
possible because believe it or not every
smartphone has gold silver and bronze in
it those materials are really good at
conducting electrical impulses and are
truly reliable corrosion is not really
an issue for them a million smart phones
contain around 772 pounds of silver and
75 pounds of gold
no wonder phones cost so much these days
number seven
striped mini-jack maybe you've noticed
that the plug on your headphones also
called a mini jack has those little
stripes between the metal parts
sometimes there are two of them
sometimes three and the oldest mini
Jack's have only one but why is that
those stripes are made of polymeric
material like plastic that's not able to
conduct an electric signal their main
purpose is to separate different
channels of
electric impulses that transfer
information those with one stripe could
provide only a mono sound signal which
means that both headphone speakers will
receive exactly the same information and
therefore will play the same sound to
stripe plugs can separate two signals
and that helps to transfer stereo sound
all music today is in stereo so you're
left headphone speaker plays a slightly
different track than your right this is
how music reaches its depth and
complexity of South three stripes means
that your headset can not only play
sounds in stereo but also has a
microphone in it and you can use it as a
hands-free device sorry to those who
thought that the stripes were just for
decoration but hey they still look fancy
enough number eight shakes undo mistakes
did you know that by shaking your
smartphone you can cancel your latest
actions on iPhones this function comes
by default but is downloadable for
Android devices too this is a good
example of how an accelerometer and a
gyroscope work in your smartphone any
device nowadays has those an
accelerometer measures velocity and a
gyroscope measures rotation motion this
means that their collective efforts help
your device to know how exactly it's
positioned and at what speed it moves
spin and flip it all you want you won't
make those two sensors dizzy they help
to count your steps in the fitness app
to show you which way you're facing the
street on a map and a lot of mobile
games are entirely built around a
network of orientation sensors number
nine what your phone charger is trying
to tell you there are so many strange
symbols they seem to just jumble up into
an unintelligible cryptographic mess
don't worry let's just sort them out all
one by one
once and for all there will always be
some kind of certification mark as the
CEO mark for example that simply means
that this charger is good enough for you
to use it it has passed all the quality
tests and is ready to go
a little house symbol tells you that
this device is only suitable for house
use the double square sign is one of the
most important because it shows that
your charger has double insulation and
you are well protected from electric
shock the trashcan crossed out means
that the charger needs to be recycled as
tech waste simply throwing them in a
garbage may result in environmental
damage and last but not least those V
signs and circles demonstrates the level
of efficiency your charger is at if
there is I before V this level is
standard for the US if there is only V
this charger meets standards for Europe
too so do you have any questions about
the tech you're using everyday ask them
in the comment section
who knows maybe it's your question that
will inspire another video like this and
don't forget to leave this video a like
share it with your friends and click
Subscribe to always stay on the bright
side of life